thank you for joining us we begin in the
Gaza Strip where Israeli attacks
continue even as talks ramp up inside
Israel and internationally around the
latest plan to end the war a divided
Israeli War cabinet is meeting to
discuss the latest plan the US president
has said it was proposed by Israel prime
minister Benjamin netanyahu's far-right
ministers have threatened to topple the
government if he agrees to the deal in
Cairo Egypt has told Israel that it must
withdraw from the Rafa border crossing
to allow it to operate again Israel took
military control of the Crossing on the
Palestinian side just over 3 weeks ago
while Israel has banned Al jaer from
reporting from there so we are joining
Sarah hirat who is in Aman Jordan so
some mixed messages from the Israeli
cabinet about the plan to end the war
Sarah are we likely to hear a definitive
response after this cabinet meeting
today certainly Folly we know that
they're discussing
this deal at the moment that's certainly
what uh the Israelis are saying and we
have been hearing from uh people in the
government in the last couple of days
since Joe Biden put that proposal
forward uh first of all saying that it
was an Israeli plan because there was
some confusion as to whether this
something was that the US had pushed or
whether the Israelis had pushed this
forward but also uh the Israelis saying
the Israeli government of course and
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu uh
that they will there will be no
permanent ceasefire at all until they
get rid of Hamas however they have also
said that they have agreed to this
three-part phase plan which was they're
saying was one of their ideas um and
also they're saying that in those first
six weeks of this uh ceasefire deal if
it was to happen of course um they would
negotiate with Hamas and then
potentially go on to the second deal but
at the same time they're saying that
they have to get rid of them completely
not just militarily but
as a governing body in the Gaza strips
I'm not sure how they expect to do that
in 6 weeks however we have heard from
the defense minister y Galan who's been
saying uh that they are much weaker
Hamas and that they continue their
operations in ra but take a listen to
what he had to say because this is
crucial the security establishment under
my instructions is preparing the
governing alternative to Hamas while we
will isolate areas remove Hamas
operatives from these areas and
introduce other forces that will enable
an alternative government that will also
threaten
Hamas well as you heard there he's
talking about isolating areas and then
he said that they will remove Hamas
people from there and introduce forces
in into that instead who are those
people we still don't know and this has
been the big biggest uh problem that not
only avalant has had with prime minister
Benjamin Netanyahu but also War cabinet
me me but Benny Gant who put an
ultimatum saying that you have to have a
postwar plan but also International
pressure because they feel that the
Israelis don't have a plan they keep on
talking about getting rid of Hamas but
what next that's the biggest uh question
and certainly uh some confusion it seems
as to this deal whether it will take
place or not and even if it does take
place will they ever get to phase two it
seems unlikely according to the Israelis
thank you Sarah for that Sarah hyat
reporting their live from Aman Jordan
because again the Israeli government has
banned Al jazer from reporting from
inside Israel so we have to do it from
outside the country well let's now speak
to Gideon Levy who's a columnist with
the Israeli Daily Newspaper haret he
joining us from Tel Aviv thank you so
much for being with us asara said there
a great deal of confusion from Israeli
leaders why is that the case the
Americans are insisting that this was an
Israeli plan all along why is a nany
government not owning up to
it there is something very enigmatic in
the air ever since Friday evening and I
guess that we don't know the full story
or there is no Story the fact is that
President Biden claimed that the plan
that he had represented is an Israeli
plan proved by Benjamin
nany nany speaks ever since then in two
voices one in English one in Hebrew and
in both cases he's very vain he's not
very clear about the the right Wingers
said immediately obviously that if n
will agree to this plan there is no
government so I think netan is being
pushed now to the moment of truth in
which he will have to decide yeah
continuing the Bloodshed continuing the
war or continuing this government and
what do you think is likely to decide as
you said there's a great deal of
pressure on him uh Benny Gant as we've
heard has threatened to quit the
Coalition if he didn't agree to day
after plan for Gaza but the extreme
farri right members of his party are
also uh threatening to quit I mean can
the current Israeli government survive
if Netanyahu accepts the steal and if he
rejects it then what
happens it can survive for the short run
but netan is thinking for the long run
if to judge netan until now he will
choose his career over the
benefit for its own country for his own
country and he will reject the deal I
don't see him stopping the war now and
without stopping the war there is no
deal let's face it I don't see him doing
it what about the pressure from
Washington uh you know we we've heard uh
Netanyahu has been invited to speak to
the US Congress in Washington everyone
wants him to accept this deal in
Washington not not just the Biden
Administration but also the powerful
Jewish Lobby APAC do you think that
might make a difference if this external
pressure from Washington ramps
up I don't know about what pressure are
you talking about he just gets benefits
he's invited to the Congress what kind
of pressure Biden had a wonderful plan
on Friday night presented a real
wonderful plan it was just missing one
sentence and the sentence should have
been if Israel says no arms delivery to
Israel will stop at one but he didn't
say and therefore I don't see any
American pressure I see advises I see
very soft words through Israel and
Israel is continuing with its War well
certainly a very pessimistic Outlook you
paint there thank you so much Gideon
Levy for talking to us on AES
here thank you fory
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from aler